Remove support for deprecated xpack.telemetry configurations (#51142)
elastic/kibana: docs/settings/telemetry-settings.asciidoc

[[telemetry-settings-kbn]]
=== Telemetry settings in Kibana
++++
<titleabbrev>Telemetry settings</titleabbrev>
++++

> By default, the Usage Collection (also known as Telemetry) is enabled. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Usage Collection (also known as Telemetry) is enabled. This
```

> help us to learn about the {kib} features our users are more interested in, so we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helps us learn about the {kib} features that our users are most interested in, so we
```

can focus our efforts on making them even better.

> You can control whether this data is sent from the {kib} servers or, if it should be sent 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can control whether this data is sent from the {kib} servers, or if it should be sent 
```

> from the user's browser, in case there is a firewall blocking those connections from the server. Additionally, you can decide to completely disable this feature either in the config file or the {kib} UI (via Management > Kibana > Advanced Settings > Usage Data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from the user's browser, in case a firewall is blocking the connections from the server. Additionally, you can decide to completely disable this feature either in the config file or in {kib} via *Management > Kibana > Advanced Settings > Usage Data*.
```

See our https://www.elastic.co/legal/privacy-statement[Privacy Statement] to learn more.

[float]
[[telemetry-general-settings]]
==== General telemetry settings

`telemetry.enabled`:: *Default: true*.
Set to `true` to send cluster statistics to Elastic. Reporting your
cluster statistics helps us improve your user experience. Your data is never
shared with anyone. Set to `false` to disable statistics reporting from any
browser connected to the {kib} instance.

`telemetry.sendUsageFrom`:: *Default: 'browser'*.
Set to `'server'` to report the cluster statistics from the {kib} server.
If the server fails to connect to our endpoint at https://telemetry.elastic.co/, it assumes

> it is behind a firewall and falls back to `'browser'` to send it from the users' browsers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is behind a firewall and falls back to `'browser'` to send it from users' browsers
```

when they are navigating through {kib}.

`telemetry.optIn`:: *Default: true*.

> Set to `true` to auto opt-in the cluster into reporting statistics. You can also opt out through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set to `true` to automatically opt into reporting cluster statistics. You can also opt out through
```

*Advanced Settings* in {kib}.

`telemetry.allowChangingOptInStatus`:: *Default: true*.

> Set to `true` to allow overwriting the `telemetry.optIn` flag via the {kib} UI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set to `true` to allow overwriting the `telemetry.optIn` setting via the {kib} UI. 
```

> N.B.: When `false`, `telemetry.optIn` must be `true`. If you want to disable the telemetry and do not give any of the users the chance to change that parameter, use `telemetry.enabled`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: When `false`, `telemetry.optIn` must be `true`. To disable telemetry and not allow users to change that parameter, use `telemetry.enabled`.
```
